# Building Reuse-Sensitive Control Flow Graphs (CFGs) for EVM Bytecode
DOI: None
Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.14437 (pdf)
[TRUNCATED to 60000 chars]
======================================================================

arXiv:2505.14437v1  [cs.SE]  20 May 2025
JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 1
Building Reuse-Sensitive Control Flow Graphs
(CFGs) for EVM Bytecode
Dingding Wang, Jianting He, Yizheng Yang, Lei Wu, Rui Chang, Yajin Zhou
Abstract—The emergence of smart contracts brings security
risks, exposing users to the threat of losing valuable cryp-
tocurrencies, underscoring the urgency of meticulous scrutiny.
Nevertheless, the static analysis of smart contracts in EVM
bytecode faces obstacles due to flawed primitives resulting from
code reuse introduced by compilers. Code reuse, a phenomenon
where identical code executes in diverse contexts, engenders
semantic ambiguities and redundant control-flow dependencies
within reuse-insensitive CFGs.
This work delves into the exploration of code reuse within
EVM bytecode, outlining prevalent reuse patterns, and introduc-
ing Esuer, a tool that dynamically identifies code reuse when
constructing CFGs. Leveraging taint analysis to dynamically
identify reuse contexts, Esuer identifies code reuse by comparing
multiple contexts for a basic block and replicates reused code
for a reuse-sensitive CFG. Evaluation involving 10,000 prevalent
smart contracts, compared with six leading tools, demonstrates
Esuer ’s ability to notably refine CFG precision. It achieves an
execution trace coverage of 99.94% and an F1-score of 97.02%
for accurate identification of reused code. Furthermore, Esuer
attains a success rate of 99.25%, with an average execution
time of 1.06 seconds, outpacing tools generating reuse-insensitive
CFGs. Esuer’s efficacy in assisting identifying vulnerabilities such
as tx.origin and reentrancy vulnerabilities, achieving F1-scores
of 99.97% and 99.67%, respectively.
Index Terms—Control Flow Graph, EVM , bytecode
I. I NTRODUCTION
Nowadays, smart contracts have gained widespread popu-
larity, involving billions of USD every day. At the same time,
smart contracts are error-prone [1]–[3] or malicious [4], [5],
resulting in a potentially high financial risk to their users. For
instance, in 2022, attacks on vulnerable smart contracts caused
a loss of about 4 billion USD [6].
To mitigate the threat, static analysis tools have been
developed to detect benign but vulnerable smart contracts
and malicious contracts . Several tools [7]–[14] operate on
EVM bytecode, which represents the compiled form of smart
contracts. The absence of verified source code constitutes a key
enabling factor for these tools. Studies [15], [16] indicate that
approximately 77.3% of deployed smart contracts lack verified
source code on Etherscan [17]. Significantly, the source code
for almost all malicious smart contracts remains inaccessible.
Furthermore, even among open-source smart contracts, about
11.9% contain inline assembly code that poses challenges for
source-level analysis tools.
Dingding Wang, Yizheng Yang, Lei Wu, Rui Chang, Yajin Zhou are with the
School of Cyber Science and Technology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou,
China. Jianting He is with the Blocksec Team, Hangzhou, China.
Email: dingdingwang@zju.edu.cn, jthe@blocksec.com, {yizhengyang,
lei wu, crix1021, yajin zhou}@zju.edu.cn.
Corresponding author: Yajin Zhou.
Limitations of existing tools However, the efficacy of static
analysis tools is significantly hindered by the limitations within
CFGs due to code reuse in EVM bytecode. Code reuse occurs
when two distinct execution paths share basic blocks (BBs)
in bytecode, despite having disparate contexts. It is generated
by compilers to compress smart contract size, which can save
transaction fees for deploying. However, this practice poses
intricate challenges for static analysis tools. Existing tools
neglect code reuse and generate reuse-insensitive CFGs, which
contain an explosion of control-flow dependency because of
disparate execution contexts for the same BB. While certain
decompilers [15], [18], [19] work on recovering functions,
which eases the explosion, they cannot eliminate code reuse in
generated CFGs. The limitations on the reuse-insensitive CFG
for EVM bytecode are explained in detail in §III.
Our observations and solution Code reuse presents com-
plex implications for static analysis. Despite mentions in
previous work [15], [19] regarding compiler optimizations in
code reuse, a comprehensive investigation is absent. Conse-
quently, we systematically study the root cause and impacts
of code reuse to enable reuse-sensitive analysis. In summary,
we extract eight prevalent code reuse patterns and elucidate
two challenges in reuse-sensitive analysis in §IV.
In response to the challenges, we introduce Esuer, a tool
tailored to generate reuse-sensitive CFGs for EVM bytecode.
Esuer’s workflow involves bytecode preprocessing for BB
generation (§V-A) and iterative construction of reuse-sensitive
CFGs (§V-B). The construction begins with an empty stack at
the first block, with each iteration handling a BB and finding
its successors, progressing through successors until all control-
flow transfers are addressed. Each iteration comprises three
steps, dynamically completing the reuse context for each BB.
With insights into code reuse, Esuer utilizes jump operands
on the stack to determine the reuse context, where distinct
contexts for the same BB signify code reuse. Specifically,
Esuer captures stack state snapshots (§V-B1), taints reuse
context based on snapshots (§V-B2), and finds a non-reused
successor or generates a clone if necessary (§V-B3). Detection
of reuse relies on comparing reuse contexts across iterations.
We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of Esuer by com-
paring it with six SoA tools. The assessments in precision
and performance utilize 10,000 prevalent smart contracts as
dataset. The results show that Esuer achieves the best preci-
sion, with a execution trace coverage of 99.94%, the fewest
infeasible paths, and a F1-score of 97.02% in code reuse iden-
tification correctness. In addition, Esuer achieves the highest
success rate at 99.25%, with an average execution time of 1.06
seconds, surpassing most tools that construct reuse-insensitive

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 2
CFGs, while demonstrating robust performance across smart
contract sizes. Furthermore, we evaluate the effectiveness of
Esuer in downstream static analysis with SolidiFi dataset [20].
Detectors based on Esuer achieve a F1-score of 99.97% to
detect tx.origin vulnerabilities and a F1-score of 99.67% to
detect reentrancy vulnerabilities. The outperformance of Esuer
in terms of precision, performance, and effectiveness provides
strong evidence of its reliability and potential.
In summary, our work makes the following contributions.
• We are the first to study code reuse introduced by compilers,
proposing insights on common code reuse patterns and
challenges to static analysis of EVM bytecode.
• We propose a method to address the code reuse issue, and
implement Esuer to construct reuse-sensitive CFGs.
• We evaluate Esuer with six SoA tools, demonstrating its
superiority in precision, performance, and effectiveness.
II. B ACKGROUND
A. EVM Bytecode
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), is the defacto standard to
execute smart contracts, used by many popular programmable
blockchains, such as Ethereum [21], Binance Smart Chain
(BSC) [22], and Polygon [23]. Its assembly language, EVM
bytecode, is a stack-based low-level intermediate represen-
tation where operands are obtained from stack. There are
some special instructions in the EVM bytecode related to our
work. First, only the PUSH instructions 1 have data encoded in
instructions. All other instructions contain only one byte of
opcode. Second, the instruction JUMPDEST (whose opcode is
0x5b) is used to denote the addresses of valid jump targets. All
jumps to other instructions except JUMPDEST will be reverted
by EVM. Third, the JUMP instructions (including unconditional
JUMP and conditional JUMPI) uses the top value in the stack as
jump targets, instead of encoding jump targets in instructions
like x86 or JVM bytecode.
B. CFG Construction
CFG is essential for most static techniques, greatly influ-
encing their effectiveness. CFG is a directed graph, in which
nodes are BBs and edges are control-flow transfers. BB is a
sequence of instructions with one entry and one exit. There
are two special types of nodes in CFG: join node and branch
node. Join node is the node with multiple predecessors, and
branch node is the node with multiple successors.
CFG recovery has been widely discussed in prior work [24]–
[27]. Two primary strategies for constructing CFG are dis-
cussed: linear sweep and recursive traversal [26]. Linear sweep
is to linearly disassemble and split BBs, extract jump targets
from jump instructions, and add the new edge to the CFG.
The whole CFG can be constructed in a single pass. However,
this strategy cannot handle interleaved code and data sections
(e.g., in ARM assembly language). Recursive traversal is to
disassemble and analyze a BB, identify its successors, connect
1 We use PUSH instructions to denote the instructions with opcodes from 0x60
to 0x7F. They are used to push different lengths of data on the stack.
them, and repeat the analysis recursively for all successors
until no new BBs are identified.
Existing approaches to construct CFGs for EVM bytecode
take the recursive traversal strategy [7]–[11]. As mentioned
in §II-A, the jump operands are obtained from the stack.
For some BBs, their successors can only be achieved with
contexts in the stack, necessitating stack emulation. Stack
emulation 2 symbolically emulates the state of the stack during
traversal. For each instruction, instead of real execution, only
their effects on the stack (e.g., popping and pushing [21]) are
emulated. Some works [9], [10] only keep symbols for jump
instructions in the stack, while others [7], [8] keep symbols
for all instructions. Our work takes the latter method.
III. M OTIVATING EXAMPLES
Code reuse is common in EVM bytecode, primarily moti-
vated by the need to economize transaction fees in deployment,
with a capped bytecode size limit of 24,576 bytes. Deploying
smart contracts incurs transaction fees that escalate in tandem
with contract size. Consequently, compilers tend to compress
contract size by reusing identical code snippets [19], [28].
In this section, we use an example to illustrate the notion
of code reuse in EVM bytecode and emphasize the necessity
of reuse-sensitive CFGs for static analysis. For better under-
standing, we present the example using source code, while
acknowledging that our work focuses on EVM bytecode. The
example code is shown in Fig. 1(a), including repetitions of
the statement ( x+=2) at both line 2 and line 5. As a result, the
EVM bytecode that reuses the code ( x+=2) will be generated.
Based on the EVM bytecode with reused code, the con-
structed reuse-sensitive and reuse-insensitive CFGs are shown
in Fig. 1(b) and Fig. 1(c), respectively. In the reuse-sensitive
CFG, the control flow and semantics mirror those of the source
code, with two conditional jumps leading to four possible
execution paths. However, a discrepancy arises in the reuse-
insensitive CFG, where line 1, 3, and 4 all direct to the
code x+=2, making two unintended loops that do not exist in
the source code. The semantics in the reuse-insensitive CFG
changes into a dead loop infinitely increasing the value of x.
Compared to the reuse-sensitive CFG, the reuse-insensitive
CFG introduces redundant control-flow dependencies. In the
reuse-sensitive CFG and the source code, line 3 exclusively
relies on lines 1 and 2 for control flow. However, in the
reuse-insensitive CFG, line 3 depends on all other three BBs,
introducing a false positive. The redundant control-flow de-
pendencies create infeasible paths that can mislead subsequent
analyses such as path constraints. For example, in the reuse-
insensitive CFG, x+=2 can execute under any condition, unlike
in practice where it only executes if x is less than 1.
The redundant control-flow dependencies also cause false
positives in data-flow dependency. We use Static Single As-
signment (SSA) form, a prevalent primitive, to illustrate data
flows. Generating SSA form [29]–[31] involves traversing
paths in CFGs and assigning new symbols upon variable
2 Stack emulation represents various terms from prior works, such as stack
model [15], symbolic stack execution [9], [10], and symbolic execution [7].

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 3
1 if x < 1:
2 x += 2
3 if x < 2:
4 x *= 2
5 x += 2
4
(a) Example code
x += 2
if x < 1
x += 2 if x < 2
x *= 2 (b) Reuse-sensitive CFG
if x < 1
x += 2
x *= 2
if x < 2 (c) Reuse-insensitive CFG
x4 = Φ(x2,x3)
x5 = x4 + 2
if x0 < 1
x1 = x0 + 2 x2 = Φ(x0,x1)
if x2 < 2
x3 = x2 * 2 (d) Reuse-sensitive data analysis
if x0 < 1
x3 = Φ(x0,x2,X4)
x1 = x3 + 2
x4 = x2 * 2
x2 = Φ(x0,x1)
if x2 < 2 (e) Reuse-insensitive data analysis
Fig. 1. Reuse-sensitive and reuse-insensitive CFGs and data analysis for the example. The reused BB is in gray background.
Push S
Jump
Push X
Jump
P X S
(a) The regular jump
Push S2Push XJump
JumpP1
P2
X
S1
S2
Push S1Push XJump (b) The jump for code reuse
Fig. 2. Two different jump patterns in EVM bytecode.
definition. In cases of multiple values at join nodes, ϕ in-
structions are created to represent alternatives. Fig. 1(d) and
Fig. 1(e) depict the data flows based on reuse-sensitive and
reuse-insensitive CFGs, respectively. In the reuse-sensitive
SSA form, x2 depends on x0 and x1 , aligning with the source
code where x in line 3 has a data-flow dependency on x from
lines 1 and 2. However, in the reuse-insensitive SSA form, x2
depends on all variables, introducing three false positives.
IV. O BSERVATIONS ABOUT CODE REUSE
Based on our analysis of EVM bytecode and the com-
piler [32], [33], we find that different jump patterns [9], [10],
[19], [34] facilitate code reuse. Fig. 2 depicts the two most
common jump patterns. As shown in Fig. 2(a), a regular
jump involves pushing the jump target immediately before
the jump instruction, following the sequence ” PUSH offset ,
JUMP/JUMPI”. Otherwise, Fig. 2(b) shows the jump pattern for
reuse, where BB X is reused. The jump target of X is not
pushed inside itself, but in its predecessors P1 and P2 instead,
enabling X to be reused by two unrelated paths (i.e., P1→S1
and P2→S2) at runtime.
Based on different jump patterns, code reuse manifests in
various forms. We abstract eight reuse patterns from numerous
contracts, classified into two categories: reuse without control-
flow structures and reuse with control-flow structures , posing
distinct challenges for static analysis. These patterns will be
discussed in detail in the following. Notable is that code reuse
in practice is more complex, e.g., various patterns may interact
with one another in intricate ways.
A. Reuse without Control-flow Structures
First, we introduce four reuse patterns devoid of control-
flow structures as shown in Fig. 3. These patterns pose a
challenge: identification of reused code . It is challenging to
statically distinguish reuse patterns and conventional control-
flow structures based solely on graph structures, because there
exist legitimate cases for each pattern that exhibit identical
graph structures but vary in semantics.
Basic fake join node The fake join node is the most
common and basic reuse pattern, as shown in Fig. 3(a). The
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Insensitive 
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Sensitive 
X'
(a) Basic fake join node
A
B
X
C
 Reuse-Insensitive
A X
B
C
 Reuse-Sensitive
X' (b) Basic fake loop
E F
A B
X
E FE F
A B
X
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Insensitive 
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Sensitive 
X'
E F
G H
E
G
B'
D'
X''
F
H
(c) Sequences of fake join nodes
C
B
A
 Reuse-Insensitive Reuse-Sensitive
D
E
C
BA
D
E
B'
C'
B''A'
B''' (d) Nested fake loops
Fig. 3. Reuse patterns without real control-flow structures.
paths A→X→C and B→X→D reuse X, constructing a fake join
node (A→X and B→X) and a fake branch node ( X→C and X→D)
in the reuse-insensitive CFG. Meanwhile, the reuse-sensitive
CFG is two split paths A→X→C and B→X’→D by generating X’
to avoid overlap. Due to the reuse of X, the reuse-insensitive
CFG contains two infeasible paths ( A→X→D and B→X→C).
Basic fake loop When there exists data dependency between
the paths reusing the same code, a fake loop is formed, as
shown in Fig. 3(b). The predecessor and the successor of B
both are X. When X is executed for the first time, its successor
is B, and for the second time, the successor is C. The reuse-
insensitive CFG contains a loop between B and X, and X
has polymorphic jump targets ( B and C). However, in reuse-
sensitive CFG, there is only one path. The fake loop in the
reuse-insensitive CFG can mislead following analysis.
Sequences of fake join nodes Fig. 3(c) shows a sequence of
fake join nodes led by nested code reuse. The paths A→X→C
and E→B→X→D→G share X, while the path F→B→X→D→H
reuses B, X, and D. The nested reuse makes a sequence of fake
join nodes ( B and X) and fake branch nodes ( X and D) in the
reuse-insensitive CFG. For blocks C, G, and H, they all have
two redundant predecessors from the other two paths. As a
result, the reuse-insensitive CFG contains nine paths while the
reuse-sensitive CFG only contains three. These false positives
in reuse-insensitive CFG increase exponentially when fake join
nodes appear more times. This pattern poses a fact that one
BB can be reused by different paths with different scope. The
block X in the paths A→X→C and E→B→X→D→G is reused as a
single BB, while in paths E→B→X→D→G and F→B→X→D→H is
reused as a sequence of BBs (B→X→D). This fact indicates that
Esuer needs to identify the reused code based on the executed

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 4
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Insensitive 
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Sensitive 
X'
E E
(a) Fake join node with a real one
B
A
C
 Reuse-Insensitive
A
B C
 Reuse-Sensitive
D
A'
B' D (b) Fake loop with a real loop
A B
XY Z
A B
X
C D
 Reuse-Insensitive
Y Z
A B
X
C D
Y Z
 Reuse-Sensitive
X'
Y' Z'
(c) Fake join nodes with multiple
exits
A
B
X
C
 Reuse-Insensitive Reuse-Sensitive
Y
Z
A
B
X
C
Y
Z
A'
X' Y'
Z'
(d) Fake loop with control-flow
transfers
Fig. 4. Reuse patterns with real control-flow structures.
path to build reuse-sensitive CFGs.
Nested fake loops Similar to fake join nodes, fake loops can
also be nested, as shown in Fig. 3(d). There are two snippets
of reused code with different scopes. The first only contains
the block B, while the second contains blocks A, B, and C. The
second includes the first. The second actually reuses the block
B twice, and the block B is executed four times. These fake
loops require dual processing to construct the reuse-sensitive
CFG, necessitating iterative handling rather than a singular
cloning process, as the inner loop impacts the outer loop.
B. Reuse with Control-flow Structures
Second, we introduce the reuse patterns that involve real
control-flow structures as shown in Fig. 4. Code reuse mixed
with real control-flow structures is more complex. These
patterns present a new challenge that is distinguishing and
maintaining the real control-flow transfers in the reused code ,
to ensure the correctness of the semantics in generated CFGs.
Fake join node with a real one When the fake join node
is also a real join node, a mixed fake join node is formed,
as shown in Fig. 4(a). The paths B→X→D and E→X→D join
at X while the path A→X→C reuses X, forming a mixed fake
join node. The control flow into X is mixed up with a real
join ( B→X and E→X) and a fake join ( A→X). The constructed
reuse-insensitive CFG looks like a join node with 3 in degrees
and 2 out degrees. This CFG indicates that three predecessors
(A, B, and E) merge at X and then the control flow splits to two
successors ( C and D). The following analysis based on this
CFG will regard both C and D have control-flow dependency
on all A, B, and E, which conflicts with the real semantics.
To provide accurate control-flow dependency for this pattern,
Esuer needs to recognize the fake join from the real join nodes,
which poses a new challenge. Besides identifying and cloning
the reused block X, the connection between predecessors and
successors should be recovered to avoid duplicate copies of
reused code or the generation of another fake join node.
Fake join nodes with multiple exits The fake join node can
also be a real branch node, leading to multiple exits in reused
code, as shown in Fig. 4(c). The reused code is a cluster of
Disassembly
Basic Block
Identification
Pre-process
Bytecode BBs CFG
Snapshot
Generation
Reuse Context
Update
Reuse-Sensitive CFG Recovery
Code Reuse
Handler
( Bc , Bs )( Bp , Bc )
Three-step Iteration for Each BB
Fig. 5. High-level architecture of Esuer.
TABLE I
REFERENCE SYMBOLS
Bc The BB processed in current iteration
Bp A predecessor ofBc, which has been processed in previous iterations
Bs A successor ofBc, which will be processed in following iterations
Sstart The state of stack before emulation
Send The state of stack after emulation
BBs, including blocks X, Y, and Z. Blocks Y and Z both are
the ends of the code reuse. Block X has a conditional jump
to Y and Z (real branch node), and Y and Z both jump to the
same successor (real join node). The reuse-insensitive CFG
indicates Y and Z both have polymorphic jump targets C and
D, which is inconsistent with the real semantics. In fact, it is
impossible that Y goes to C while Z goes to D at the same time.
Fake loop with control-flow structures Similar to the fake
join nodes, the fake loop can also contain real control-flow
structures in the loop body, as shown in Fig. 4(b) and Fig. 4(d).
In Fig. 4(b), the fake loop contains a real loop in the loop
body. The real loop consisting of A and B is executed twice
and reused. Block A has a conditional jump whose fall-through
edge is to B. Jump target of A is C for the first time, and D for
the second time. Due to code reuse, block C jumps back to A in
the reuse-insensitive CFG, forming a fake loop. In Fig. 4(d),
the reused code is a cluster of BBs including blocks A, X, Y,
and Z, containing a branch node and a join node. Block Z is
a real join node as the successor of X and Y. This cluster is
reused and executed twice with two different successors B and
C. In the reuse-insensitive CFG, the reuse constructs a fake
loop. These two patterns both require Esuer to identify the
real control-flow structures in the fake loop body.
V. D ESIGN
In this section, we present Esuer which identifies code
reuse and constructs reuse-sensitive CFGs for EVM bytecode.
To enhance comprehension, we offer illustrative examples
in §V-C. We introduce the core idea of Esuer at first. §IV
proposes two challenges due to code reuse: identification
of code reuse and maintaining real control-flow transfers ,
with various reuse patterns. To address these two challenges
and handle all patterns, Esuer adopts a dynamic approach to
identify code reuse during CFG construction. Fundamentally,
Esuer defines reuse context to identify code reuse generally.
Definition 1 For each BB, its reuse context is the jump
operands that are pushed by predecessors in its stack, which
are also called pre-pushed jump operands in the following.
The definition of reuse context is based on our insights in
§IV. First, if the jump operand of a BB is pre-pushed, it
indicates that this BB can be reused, which can be used to
identify code reuse. Second, the values of pre-pushed jump
operands from different predecessors are the same in real join

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 5
nodes, and are different in fake join nodes, which can be used
to maintain real control-flow transfers. Therefore, pre-pushed
jump operands can be reuse contexts. If the contexts from
two predecessors are the same, these two predecessors can be
connected to the same successor. Otherwise, it is code reuse,
and a new clone of the successor should be generated.
Based on this core idea, the overview of Esuer is shown in
Fig. 5, and the reference symbols are shown in Table I. Esuer
consists of two components: pre-process and reuse-sensitive
CFG recovery. Pre-process takes bytecode as input and outputs
identified BBs as nodes in the CFG. Reuse-sensitive CFG
recovery connects control-flow transfers between BBs, and
identifies code reuse during the process. To construct CFGs,
Esuer adopts an iterated method to recursively visit BBs. In
the recursive traversal, each BB can be visited multiple times,
and Esuer needs to identify code reuse since the second visit
by comparing reuse contexts cross visits. Therefore, Esuer
keeps the snapshots about stack state of each BB for every
visit ( snapshot generation ), and taints reuse context ( reuse
context update) in every iteration, to ensure all connections in
the generated CFG are non-reuse ( code reuse handler ). The
iterations start from the BB at offset 0x0, and end when all
control-flow transfers are found. Each iteration emulates Bc
with context from Bp, and connects Bs to Bc. The Bc becomes
Bp for the next iteration, and Bs becomes Bc.
A. Pre-process
Pre-process consists of disassembly and basic block iden-
tification. Disassembly translates the hex string into readable
mnemonics with offsets, and basic block identification splits
monolithic mnemonics into BBs which will be nodes in CFGs.
Disassembly Esuer uses linear sweep strategy in disassem-
bly, to scan bytecode, convert each instruction from hex string
into its corresponding mnemonic, and increase the program
counter with the length of the instruction. The mnemonic and
length of each instruction are recorded in the formal specifi-
cation of Ethereum [21]. In addition, Esuer skips embedded
data of PUSH instructions to avoid unintended instructions. If
data of PUSH instructions are converted into instructions, the
disassembled instructions will conflict with the real execution.
Basic block identification Esuer identifies BBs by locating
JUMPDEST instruction which is used to mark the start of a
BB. Unlike previous work [8]–[11] that directly strips data
before identifying BBs, Esuer keeps all data in this process to
ensure the completeness of generated CFGs. That is because
developers can deliberately embed code in the data region for
the purpose of code obfuscation. For instance, the code can be
put inside the data region of the CODECOPY instruction or the
metadata section. Removing data and metadata too early can
lead to an incomplete CFG.
B. Reuse-sensitive CFG Recovery
The reuse-sensitive CFG recovery is an iterated and incre-
mental process, as shown in Algorithm 1. The whole process
starts from the first BB at code offset 0x0 (Line 1), with
an empty stack as its Sstart (Line 6), and stops when no
new control-flow transfers are found. In each iteration, a BB
Algorithm 1: Reuse-sensitive CFG Recovery
Input: BBs ; ▷ All BBs identified in pre-process
Output: CF G
1 Bc ← The BB at offset 0x0 ; ▷ Initialization
2 work list ← [(N one, Bc)];
3 while work list is not empty do
4 Bp, Bc ← work list.pop() ;
5 if Bp is None then
6 Bc.Sstart ←An empty stack;
7 end
8 else
9 Bc.Sstart ← PrepareStack(Bp,Bc);
10 end
11 Bc.Send, Off s ← Emulate(Bc) /* Off s is a list containing
offsets of all Bc’s successors */
12 Snapshot(Bc.Sstart,Bc.Send) ; ▷ §V-B1
13 for offset in Off s do
14 if offset in Bc.Sstart then
15 UpdateContext(offset) ; ▷ §V-B2
16 end
17 Bs ← ReuseHandler(Bc, offset) ; ▷ §V-B3
18 CF G.add edge(Bc, Bs);
19 work list.push(Bc, Bs);
20 end
21 end
is symbolically emulated with the stack inherited from its
predecessors, and its successors are obtained for following
iterations. There are three steps involved in each iteration.
Step I: Snapshot generation. The first step works towards
Bc, including stack emulation and snapshot preservation (Line
4-12). Esuer symbolically emulates Bc, and keeps Sstart and
Send as the snapshot of Bc in this visit. This snapshot will be
used to compare with other snapshots in future visits to decide
whether Bc is reused (in step III).
Step II: Reuse context update. This step works towards Bps
and their clones, updating their reuse context based on taint
analysis. The reuse context is pre-pushed jump operands in the
Sstart, which are tainted when the operands are used. In this
step, Esuer uses the jump operand used in Bc as the initial
source to collect taint sources and transfer taints.
Step III: Code reuse handler. The third step works towards
Bss, detecting reuse of them based on the snapshots with
tainted reuse context generated in Step I and Step II from
previous visits. In this step, Esuer selects a non-reuse Bs as
jump target of Bc, or generates a new clone as Bs if needed.
After that, the iteration for Bc is finished. And Esuer
continues to the next iteration for Bs (which will be Bc
in that iteration). Each step in the iteration affects different
BBs instead of just Bc. Therefore, iterations can interact with
each other, helping to construct a reuse-sensitive CFG. In the
following, we will elaborate on each step.
1) Snapshot Generation: The initial step in each iteration
involves creating snapshots for Bc. These snapshots encom-
pass Sstart and Send, capturing the stack state before and
after emulation, respectively. The generation of Sstart occurs
in Algorithm 1 Lines 5-10. For the initial BB with an offset
of 0x0, its Sstart remains an empty stack. In contrast, for
other BBs, their Sstart is inherited from Bp.Send (Line 9).
In cases where Bc has additional predecessors with differing
Send values from Bp.Send, ϕ instructions are introduced
to represent multiple potential values. These ϕ instructions
facilitate the replacement of varying stack values to establish
the new Bc.Sstart.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 6
Following the acquisition of Sstart for Bc, the stack emula-
tion process proceeds to derive Send using Sstart as the execu-
tion context (Line 11). As elucidated in §II-B, Esuer engages
in stack emulation and leverages symbols in SSA format to
denote the outcomes of emulated instructions. Each instruction
involves the popping of stack elements as instruction operands,
with the subsequent generation of an SSA symbol for pushing
back to the stack as the return value if the instruction yields
one. Post-emulation, all instructions within Bc are translated
into three-address codes annotated with their operands and
return values represented by SSA symbols or constants.
2) Reuse Context Update: Reuse context is identified based
on taint analysis, including taint generation and taint transfer.
These taints are used in identification of code reuse (Step III).
Taint generation After stack emulation, the jump target of
Bc is determined. If this target has been pre-pushed, Esuer
utilizes it as the initial source and generates taint for it,
indicating that it belongs to reuse context. That is because
different pre-pushed jump targets align with the code reuse
pattern, signifying reused code (§IV).
Based on the initial source, Esuer collects others taint
sources by backwards data analysis. By utilizing SSA symbols
generated in stack emulation (Step I), Esuer builds def-use
chains for the initial source, and traces back to the origin, i.e.,
the PUSH instruction that introduces the operand into the stack.
During this process, Esuer taints all intermediate variables as
sources. For example, if the variable a is the initial source and
is calculated by AND(0xffff,b), b is also tainted as a source.
Taint Transfer Reuse context taints propagate from sources
based on data dependencies. Moreover, taints are also trans-
ferred among clones of the same BB, as these clones can share
locations of reuse context with each other. This sharing arises
from the fact that identical instructions yield the same effects
on the stack, involving an equal number of stack pops and
pushes. Consequently, pre-pushed jump operands that should
be tainted as reuse context are stored in the same identical
locations in these clones. For a pair of clones, same values of
pre-pushed jump operands signify the execution of the same
instructions, leading to identical locations for the subsequent
pre-pushed jump operand. Conversely, different pre-pushed
jump operands between two clones, denoting distinct paths
that execute different instructions, signal the termination of
shared reuse context.
Based on these insights, taint transfers between clones
following these steps. Initially, Esuer aggregates tainted reuse
contexts from clones of a basic block, denoted by (stack
index, value) . Here, the stack index signifies the position
of the tainted reuse context in the stack, while the value
represents the value of the tainted variable. Subsequently,
Esuer facilitates the transfer of taints between clones that
possess identical values at corresponding locations.
3) Code Reuse Handler: The third step is to detect code
reuse when selecting Bs for Bc and generate clones if neces-
sary. To build a reuse-sensitive CFG, Esuer needs to select a
BB that is not reused as Bs and connect it to Bc. Snapshots of
Bs in different iterations are utilized to ensure the connection
will not lead to code reuse. Specifically, Esuer can obtain the
offset of Bs from emulated jump instructions in Bc (Line 11
in Algorithm 1). Because of cloning in previous iterations,
the same offset can lead to multiple BBs. All these BBs are
candidates for successors of Bc. Esuer compares the Bc.Send
with all candidates to select a non-reuse successor as Bs. If
there are no suitable BBs, a new clone will be generated.
The selection of the successor is based on the snapshots
generated by the Step I (§V-B1) with reuse context marked by
the Step II (§V-B2) in previous iterations. Specifically, Esuer
compares Bc.Send with Sstart in snapshots of each candidate.
Given the two stacks, Esuer regards it is not code reuse iff all
the values of tainted reuse contexts are the same. If Esuer
cannot find a non-reuse candidate for Bc, a new clone will be
generated as Bs in the end. When generating the new clone,
context sharing strategy (§V-B2) is also adopted to initialize
the reuse context of the new clone, to ensure the reuse context
of the new clone is sufficient for further reuse identification
in following iterations.
C. Example
An example is used to illustrate the previous steps about
code reuse identification (§V-B), as shown in Fig. 6. 3.
Note that, examples only show snippets instead of the whole
programs. We use BBoff to denote offset of BBs. In the
example, Block X is a mixed fake join node with a real one.
There are three steps to construct a reuse-sensitive CFG for it.
Step 1: Mark reuse context for X. For the first visit, X inherits
Sstart from A whose Send contains Coff . After emulation,
Esuer finds that the used jump operand Coff is pre-pushed
and exists in X.Sstart. Therefore, Esuer taints the Coff in
X.Sstart as X’s reuse context. Then Esuer explores the path
recursively until the end.
Step 2: Identify code reuse with the marked reuse context.
When exploring other paths, Esuer emulates B and needs to
find the successor for it. Esuer collects all candidates, which
are X. Esuer compares the values of tainted reuse context in
X.Sstart and B.Send. Then Esuer finds that they are not equal
as one is Coff while another is Doff , which means that A and
B reuse X. As a result, Esuer cannot find a suitable successor
for B, and generates a new clone X’. After generation, X shares
reuse context with X’. Esuer first gathered locations and values
of tainted reuse context from X, which is Coff at index 1. Then,
Esuer transfers the taint to the same location in X’, which is
Doff at index 1. After that, Esuer finds that X and X’ do not
have the same value at this location, and finishes the sharing.
Step 3: Select successors with the marked reuse context.
Esuer finds E whose jump target is also Xoff . Now there
are two candidates for E’s successor, i.e., X and X’. Esuer
compares E.Send with X.Sstart and X ′.Sstart, and finds that
the contents at reuse context from E.Send and X ′.Sstart are
the same, which both are Doff . Therefore, X’ is the successor
for E, and Esuer connects them. After that, Esuer solves the
reuse of X and keeps the real join of B and E.
VI. E VALUATION
The evaluation aims to qualify Esuer by answering the
following research questions.
3 We also provide another example in our github repo which is more complex
to explain taint transfers in marking reuse context (§V-B2)

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 7
 Reuse-Insensitive CFG 
2
Code Reuse
 Reuse-Sensitive CFG 
C
...
A.Send 
1 Bp = A , Bc = X
...
Jump C
X
Mark reuse context (in red) in the first visit
...
Push C
A
0
1 C
...
X.Sstart 
Identify code reuse before the second visit
Bc = B , Bs = X
D
...
B.Send 
...
Push D
B
C
...
X.Sstart 
X.Sstart[1] != B.Send[1]
D
...
X'.Sstart 
B
XX.Sstart 
C
...
X
A
C X'B
A B
X
C D
E A B
X
C D
X'
E
3
Select suitable successors for following visits
Bc = E , Bs = X
D
...
E.Send 
...
Push D
E
C
...
X.Sstart 
D
...
X'.Sstart X'E
E
X'X
Select X'
Fig. 6. An example to illustrate the basic idea of Esuer.
RQ1: Precision. Do CFGs generated by Esuer exhibit higher
precision by reuse-sensitive analysis? Does the reuse-sensitive
analysis influence correctness of CFGs? Can Esuer success-
fully identify all code reuse?
RQ2: Performance. Can Esuer successfully generate CFGs
for real-world smart contracts? What is the performance of
Esuer? Is Esuer scalable, in terms of analyzing smart contracts
in different sizes?
RQ3: Effectiveness. How effective is Esuer in solving the
downstream static analysis problem?
Dataset We use two datasets for the evaluation. For precision
and performance, we utilized the most popular smart contracts
as our dataset for this evaluation. Specifically, we collected
10,000 unique contracts that had the most transactions from
September 27, 2021, to September 27, 2022. We obtained the
compile information for these contracts from Etherscan [17].
The scale and compiler version distribution of the smart
contracts in our dataset are shown in Fig. 7(a) and Fig. 7(b),
respectively. The size of smart contracts in our dataset varies
from tens of bytes to nearly the maximal size limit, covering
all possible sizes of smart contracts. This allows us to measure
the performance of all tools in handling smart contracts
of different sizes, ensuring a comprehensive evaluation of
their effectiveness. The compiler configuration of the smart
contracts in our dataset is also diverse. Although most popular
smart contracts use the latest version of the Solidity compiler,
the oldest version is still used. Additionally, while nearly
all popular smart contracts use the Solidity compiler, some
contracts use Vyper. This diversity of compiler configurations
requires the ability of analyzing EVM bytecode with different
versions of different compilers, making our evaluation com-
prehensive and applicable to a wide range of smart contracts.
For effectiveness, we use SolidiFI dataset [35], which
consists in 50 Ethereum smart contracts whose source code
has been injected with 9,369 security vulnerabilities by the
automated approach SolidiFI [20]. This dataset has been used
to compare the most prominent vulnerability detection tools
in previous works [9], [10], [20].
Comparison Tools In this evaluation, we compare Esuer
with six state-of-the-art (SoA) tools, namely Rattle [8], Van-
dal [7], Ethersolve [9], [10], Gigahorse [18], [19], Octo-
pus [11], and Mythril [36]. These tools serve for different aims
and use different methodologies to generate CFGs. Rattle and
Vandal are two static analysis frameworks, while Ethersolve is
a specialized tool that focuses on CFGs. Gigahorse is one of
the leading decompilers of EVM bytecode. Octopus uses static
primitives to detect vulnerabilities in smart contracts, while
0 5 10 15 20 25
Contract Bytecode Length 
(thousands)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Percentage of Smart Contract
(a) The CDF for contracts
size in dataset.
v0.3.x v0.4.x v0.5.x v0.6.x v0.7.x v0.8.x vyper
Compiler Version
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000Number of Contracts
3 423 477 769 604
7657
67
(b) The distribution of compiler versions for
contracts in dataset.
Fig. 7. The statistics of the dataset.
Mythril analyzes EVM bytecode with symbolic execution and
constraint solving techniques. We find that Octopus crashes
due to unsupported operations and fix them because we are
more interested in comparing algorithms in CFG generation
than the imperfection of implementations
A. Precision
To answer RQ1, we measure the precision of Esuer from
path quality in CFGs and the capability to detect code reuse.
1) Path quality: We measure the quality of paths in a
CFG to measure the precision of the CFG, for the following
three reasons. First, paths contain information on control-flow
dependencies, which is lossless in representing a CFG. Second,
as mentioned in §IV, code reuse can result in a geometric
increase in the number of possible paths in CFGs. Therefore,
a larger number of possible paths can suggest the presence of
reused code in CFGs. Third, paths can reflect the efficiency
of subsequent analyses based on the CFG, indicating the
applicability of the tool.
Metric We use two metrics to measure the path quality
of CFGs: the number of paths in CFGs generated by all
tools, and coverage of execution traces extracted from historic
transactions. A higher coverage with fewer paths indicates that
the CFG contains more real execution traces while removing
infeasible paths introduced by code reuse, which is better
in precision of control-flow information. We do not use real
execution traces as ground truth, because real transactions only
trigger a small part of contracts as most feasible paths are used
for error handling which are not toughed by transactions.
Method To measure path number, we take Esuer as base and
use ratio to represent the number of paths in CFGs generated
by each tool, as the number of paths can be very large due
to path explosion. To ensure a fair comparison, for each
compared tool, we only compare smart contracts for which
both Esuer and the compared tool can successfully generate
CFGs. In addition, we exclude Mythril due to its low success

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 8
20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Execution trace coverage
1x
10x
30x
100x
1000x
3000x
# of paths in generated CFGs
 based on Esuer (in logscale)
(98.83%, 29.70x)
(94.02%, 1.04x)(23.99%, 1.30x)
(54.52%, 2739.36x) (59.94%, 3092.25x)
(99.94%, 1.00x)
Ethersolve
Gigahorse
Octopus
Vandal
Rattle
Esuer
Fig. 8. The precision of all tools. A higher coverage with fewer paths indicates
better precision.
rate (explained in §VI-B). Specifically, to calculate the ratio
of a compared tool, we use the average of the ratios for all
common contracts of Esuer and the compared tool. For each
contract, we use dynamic programming to count paths in the
CFGs generated by Esuer and the compared tool, and get their
ratio. For loops in CFGs, we only count once.
To measure coverage, we collected real execution traces
from historical transactions of smart contracts in the dataset. In
total, we collect 252,726,569 transactions and extract 950,221
execution traces from transactions. Most transactions trigger
the same execution trace of a contract, which is served as a
functionality of the contract. To calculate the trace coverage
of a CFG, we check the existence of execution traces in the
CFG. After that, we used the average trace coverage of all
CFGs to represent the trace coverage of a tool.
Result The results are shown in Fig. 8, demonstrating im-
provements in path quality achieved by Esuer’s reuse-sensitive
analysis. The y-axis represents the ratio of the number of
paths in CFGs generated by each tool to that in Esuer’s CFGs.
The x-axis represents the execution trace coverage of CFGs
generated by each tool. A higher value in x-axis means that
the CFGs generated by the tool cover more real execution
traces, indicating that CFGs include more feasible paths and
are more complete. A lower value in y-axis notates generated
CFGs contain less paths, indicating there are less infeasible
paths in generated CFGs As a result, Esuer outperforms all
tools. Esuer has both the smallest number of paths and the
highest execution trace coverage, which means that Esuer
provides the most complete control-flow information with the
fewest infeasible paths. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude
that Esuer’s reuse-sensitive analysis is highly effective in
improving the precision of CFGs.
The loss of trace coverage is caused by the absence of edges
in CFGs. For Esuer, there are 138 execution traces not in
the CFGs, involving two smart contracts. These two contracts
both use jump operands stored in the memory. Similar to most
existing static analysis tools towards EVM bytecode , Esuer
do not emulate contents in memory and storage, leading to
unknown jump destinations. The problem is rare in present
contracts, as these two contracts are both compiled by old
versions of Vyper.
As for other tools, they lose trace coverage due to flaws
in their CFG construction method. There are lots of orphan
BBs in CFGs generated by Octopus, which is the reason
to both the small amount of paths and low trace coverage.
That is because Octopus misuses magic code to extract code
and maintains wrong offset of instructions, leading to failures
in connecting BBs. Vandal and Rattle both recursively con-
nect BBs backward with limited stack depth. Without reuse
analysis, they spend most time and stack depth in infeasible
edges due to code reuse, and fail to connect feasible edges
that can be executed in practice. As a result, they both have
a great amount of paths in CFGs with low trace coverage.
Gigahorse also uses jump operands as a key feature with
pattern matching to recover internal functions and clone BBs
that belong to different extracted functions, which reduces the
number of paths but also diminishes trace coverage. Intricate
reuse scenarios coupled with the influence of the compilation
environment inherently restrict the efficacy of pattern matching
in EVM bytecode, particularly in addressing complex corner
cases. Therefore, Esuer uses a dynamic way to complete
reuse contexts and identify code reuse, which is general and
accurate regardless of compilation environments. Ethersolve
uses a forward method to construct CFGs, which makes the
path amount of it is smaller than Rattle and Vandal. However,
Ethersolve does not handle code reuse, resulting in its path
amount nearly 30 times of Esuer. In addition, Ethersolve only
maintains jump operands in stack, which leads to the loss of
edges in CFGs. In contrast, Esuer keeps all values in stack,
which enables Esuer find edges that engage calculation.
2) Code reuse detection: We measure the capability of code
reuse detection of Esuer in two aspects: correctness of code
reuse detection and existence of code reuse in generated CFGs.
Metric The correctness of code reuse detection is to check
whether the code reuse identified by Esuer is correct by
comparing with the compiler. When the identified code reuse
is also marked as reuse in compiler, it is a true positive (TP).
If the identified code reuse is not marked by compiler, it is a
false positive (FP). If the code reuse is marked by the compiler
but not identified by Esuer, it is a false negative (FN). We use
the precision ( |TP|
|TP|+|FP|), recall ( |TP|
|TP|+|FN |), and F1-score
( 2×P recision×Recall
P recision+Recall ) metrics to measure the correctness of
code reuse detection. ∥ denotes the number of TPs/FPs/FNs.
The existence of code reuse in generated CFGs is a measure
of the ability of Esuer to eliminate code reuse. In particular,
we use the existence of polymorphic jump targets to measure
the existence of code reuse in CFGs, which is a metric used by
previous workse [18], [19] to measure precision. Polymorphic
jump targets means that jumps resolve to more than one
target for non-fallthrough CFG edges, which is abnormal
in compiler-generated EVM bytecode. The root cause of
polymorphic jump targets is that multiple predecessors of
reused code push different pre-pushed jump operands. In other
assembly languages, there are other cases that can lead to poly-
morphic jump targets such as jump tables introduced by switch
cases or function pointers. However, in EVM bytecode, these
cases are processed by if-else structures, without polymorphic
jump targets. Therefore, polymorphic jump targets can be a
characteristic of code reuse in EVM bytecode.
Method To get reuse information from the compiler, we
extract ”tag” information from the assembly. Assembly has the

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 9
same semantics as bytecode, and contains more information
from the compiler, which is the ”tag” information. Tag is
used by the solidity compiler to flag code snippets [33]. We
identify code reuse in the assembly by identifying tag reuse.
Specifically, tag is used in the assembly with the instruction
”push tag”. If a tag is used in multiple places, all BBs with the
tag are reused. For example, if there is the instruction ”push
tag 3” in both tag 1 and tag 2, it means that code in tag 3 is
reused by tag 1 and tag 2. After achieving reused code in the
assembly, we compare it with reused code identified by Esuer.
However, in some cases, the reuse tag in assembly is not
actually reused in execution. For example, two path after a
branch both ”push tag”, but one of them reverts before using
the tag. As a result, the tag is only used once but pushed twice.
Therefore, we further evaluate the existence of code reuse in
generated CFGs by ”polymorphic jump targets”. Specifically,
we count the number of polymorphic jump targets in CFGs.
Result Esuer achieves precision of 98.16%, recall of
96.18%, and F1-score of 97.02%. The loss of precision is
because of FPs, which are introduced by clones of end BBs.
End BBs are the BBs whose terminators end transactions such
as STOP and REVERT. Esuer clones end BBs if they have
multiple predecessors (explained in §VII). However, there do
exist some shared exit code in the source code. As a result,
there are some FPs in the generated CFGs. We think it is
acceptable because clones of end BBs do not cause further
influences. In addition, these FPs only lead to a small loss
of precision. The loss of recall is because of FNs, which are
introduced by the different mechanisms of Esuer and assembly
to identify code reuse. As mentioned before, in assembly, reuse
is identified by matching the instruction ”push tag”, but not all
the pushed tag are used in real execution. Meanwhile, Esuer
identifies code reuse by stack emulation, which is more similar
to real execution. Therefore, the tags that are only pushed but
not used are not identified by Esuer, leading to FNs.
However, these FNs do not actually lead to code reuse in
generated CFGs. To prove this, we further count polymorphic
jump targets in CFGs generated by Esuer. The result is that
there are no polymorphic jump targets in Esuer-generated
CFGs. In the meantime, there are 11,769 polymorphic jump
targets in 1,106 CFGs generated by Gigahorse. The CFGs that
contain polymorphic jump targets account for 11.17% in all
Gigahorse-generated CFGs, indicating that Gigahorse does not
eliminate code reuse. The result proves that the method of
Esuer can eliminate code reuse in generated CFGs.
Answer to RQ1 Esuer achieves the best precision with
the fewest paths and highest execution trace coverage
of 99.94% compared with other tools. The code reuse
identified by Esuer achieves a F1-score of 97.02% in
correctness. In addition, there do not exist polymorphic
jump targets in CFGs generated by Esuer, indicating Esuer
successfully eliminates code reuse.
B. Performance
To answer RQ2, we evaluate performance of all tools on
separate dockers with 16GB of memory and 4 cores, running
64-bit Ubuntu 20.04 LTS system. Each tool is given 120
TABLE II
THE PERFORMANCE OF ALL TOOLS .
Performance Ethersolve Mythril Gigahorse Octopus Vandal Rattle Esuer
Success Rate 98.81% 5.48% 99.04% 60.57% 94.04% 59.87% 99.25%
Error Rate 1.14% 0.04% 0 35.23% 0.35% 30.29% 0
Timeout Rate 0.05% 94.48% 0.96% 4.20% 5.61% 9.84% 0.75%
Average Time (s) 0.86 42.93 7.40 15.23 24.10 22.45 1.06
seconds to analyze each smart contract and generate CFGs.
If a tool does not output anything within the time limit, we
consider it a timeout for that contract. Additionally, some tools
may raise exceptions during processing for some contracts
and fail to generate CFGs successfully, which we deem an
error. Therefore, there are three possible results: success, error,
and timeout. We also compare execution time of all tools
and excludes their error and timeout cases for accuracy. The
performance of all tools is shown in Table II.
Success rate Esuer achieves a success rate of 99.25%, which
is the highest compared to other tools. The timeout cases of
Esuer are due to dynamically changing reuse context, which
causes Esuer to continuously generate clones for all 120
seconds. These cases can be resolved by combining dynamic
analysis, which is outside the scope of this paper and will be
considered in the future. For Ethersolve and Octopus, most
failures are caused by compiler conflicts because they rely
on some magic code to analyze EVM bytecode. For Mythril,
the symbolic execution and constraint solver make it time-
consuming when handling most real-world smart contracts.
As smart contracts become more complex, the necessity of
static analysis for them is increasing. Gigahorse also has a high
success rate, but for some cases, it only generates incomplete
intermediate analysis results without any error information.
Vandal and Rattle use a backward strategy to construct CFGs
from the leaf node to the root node, which makes them suffer
from redundant data-flow dependencies caused by code reuse.
Time The average execution time of Esuer is 1.06 seconds,
the second fastest among all tools. The fastest tool is Ether-
solve, which is implemented in Java while the others are in
Python. However, as mentioned in §VI-A, the precision of
Ethersolve is not that good because of its reuse-insensitive
CFGs. Although Esuer conducts code reuse identification,
which Ethersolve does not, the average time of Esuer is
only 0.2 seconds more than Ethersolve. This proves that the
algorithm used by Esuer to identify code reuse is lightweight,
and the overhead is negligible. For Gigahorse, the average
time is 7.40 seconds, nearly seven times of Esuer. Although
one may think it is just a few seconds, in practice, it is
crucial for real-world malware and vulnerabilities detection.
The real-world attacks happen in real-time, so the time period
between deploying malicious contracts or vulnerable contracts
and attacks is limited for analysis. This factor requires a high
speed of tools to generate static primitives, especially when
analyzing contracts in blockchains with a short block time
such as BSC. Therefore, the lightweight of Esuer makes it
more practical in providing CFGs for large-scale static analysis
towards real-world smart contracts.
Scalability We evaluate the scalability of all tools by group-
ing the success rate and execution time by the size of contracts.
We divide contract sizes into five levels, with an interval of

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021 10
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%0 5 10 15 20 250
20
40
60
80
100
Ethersolve
94.2 99.7 99.6 99.6 98.8
5.8
0.3 0.4 0.3 1.00.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2
0 5 10 15 20 25
Mythril
20.9
6.1
2.0 1.4 0.60.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0
79.0 93.9 97.9 98.5 99.4
0 5 10 15 20 25
Gigahorse
100.0 99.9 99.0 98.8 96.1
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.00.0 0.1 1.0 1.2 3.9
0 5 10 15 20 25
Octopus
93.4
53.2
48.3
63.4 66.1
6.2
43.5 46.1
31.8
27.3
0.4 3.3 5.6 4.8 6.6
0 5 10 15 20 250
20
40
60
80
100
Vandal
99.4 99.5 99.4 91.5
61.7
0.6 0.5 0.6
8.5
38.3
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
0 5 10 15 20 25
Rattle
61.8
74.7
67.8
29.7
11.7
38.2
25.3
32.2
70.3
88.3
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
0 5 10 15 20 25
Esuer
Execution Time
Success
Error
Timeout
100.0 99.7 99.3 98.9 97.5
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.10.0 0.3 0.7 1.1 2.4
Contract Bytecode Length (thousands)
Average Time Used (s)
Percentage of Contracts (%)
Fig. 9. The execution results and execution time of smart contracts of different sizes. The red line represents the average execution time for contracts of
different sizes (using the left y-axis), and the bars indicate the proportions of each execution state for contracts of different sizes (using the right y-axis).
TABLE III
RESULTS OF TX .ORIGIN AND REENTRANCY DETECTORS .
Tools Precision Recall F1-score
Esuer 99.93% 100% 99.97%
Ethersolve 99.93% 100% 99.97%
Vandal 98.86% 98.92% 98.89%tx.origin
Mythril 75.27% 75.27% 75.27%
Esuer 99.41% 100% 99.67%
Ethersolve 84.26% 100% 91.04%
Vandal 79.39% 31.01% 43.23%reentrancy
Mythril 42.46% 23.61% 29.07%
5,000 bytes. The results are shown in Fig. 9. For smart con-
tracts of different sizes, Esuer all achieves high success rates
and incurs small execution time. The performance of Esuer
is slightly influenced by the size of the analyzed contracts.
Compared with most other tools, for Esuer, contracts in larger
sizes do not result in an exponential increase in execution
time or a significant reduction in success rate. The results
demonstrate that Esuer has excellent scalability, enabling it
to handle complex smart contracts of any size.
Answer to RQ2 Esuer has the highest success rate
of 99.25% , the second fastest speed with an average
execution time of 1.06s, and great scalability to handle
real-world smart contracts.
C. Effectiveness
To answer RQ3, we implement two detectors based on Esuer
and evaluate their ability to measure the effectiveness of Esuer.
A case study is also provided to illustrate how Esuer assists
in downstream static analysis.
1) Vulnerability detection: We implement detectors built on
top of Esuer to detect reentrancy vulnerabilities and tx.origin
vulnerabilities. We compare Esuer with Ethersolve, Vandal,
and Mythril these three tools that have the capability to detect
both reentrancy vulnerabilities and tx.origin vulnerabilities.
We use SolidiFI dataset, which contains smart contracts in-
jected with vulnerabilities and ground truths about the loca-
tions of injected vulnerabilities. All tools target EVM bytecode
and report vulnerability locations in bytecode level, so we map
ground truth from the source code to the bytecode, and eval-
uate the correctness of reports. If the reported vulnerabilities
are in the ground truth, they are TPs, otherwise, they are FPs.
If the vulnerabilities in the ground truth are not reported, they
are FNs. We use the precision, recall, and F1-score metrics to
measure the effectiveness of all tools.
The results are shown in Table III. Esuer outperforms all
other tools. For the tx.origin vulnerabilities whose pattern is
simple, all tools perform better than reentrancy vulnerabilities.
Esuer and Ethersolve perform the best, with precision of
99.93%, recall of 100%, and F1-score of 99.97%. For the
reentrancy vulnerabilities whose detection is complex, Esuer
performs better than other tools. That is because the detection
of reentrancy vulnerabilities requires more precise control-flow
information and data-flow information, which are provided by
Esuer’s reuse-sensitive analysis.
2) Case Study: We use the reentrancy vulnerability in the
DAO attack [37] as the example, and simplify it for illustration.
The DAO attack is one of the most famous reentrancy attacks,
causing a $150 million loss in digital assets. reentrancy
occurs when the contract exposes external calls that can be
hijacked by callers to call a function within the contract itself
several times. C-E-I (Check-Effect-Interaction) [38], [39] is
a security programming pattern in smart contracts to prevent
reentrancy attacks. It r